                                    EXERCISE PART 1

Explanation of How Task Creation Works
    1. Core Components Involved
    Classes / Types referenced:
    TaskPriority — wraps a numeric priority into an enum-like structure
    Task — data model representing a task entity
    self.storage — persistence layer / repository that stores tasks

    Methods involved:
    create_task(...): the main factory / entry point for creating tasks
    self.storage.add_task(task): handles persistence, returns task ID



2. Execution Flow When Creating a Task
    Here’s what happens step-by-step:

    Step 1. Validate and convert priority
            priority = TaskPriority(priority_value)


    Converts user input (likely an int) into a formal Priority object
    Encapsulates business rules around priorities
    Prevents callers from passing arbitrary values

    Step 2. Validate and parse due date
    due_date = None
            if due_date_str:
                try:
                    due_date = datetime.strptime(due_date_str, "%Y-%m-%d")
                except ValueError:
                    print("Invalid date format. Use YYYY-MM-DD")
                    return None


    Optional due_date_str is converted into a datetime
    If invalid, prints error & aborts the operation
    This is simple validation done at the service level

    Step 3. Construct a Task entity
            task = Task(title, description, priority, due_date, tags)

    The Task object is created in memory
    At this point, no persistence has occurred yet
    The entity now holds all domain data

    Step 4. Persist the task
            task_id = self.storage.add_task(task)
            return task_id

    Task is passed to the storage layer
    The storage layer assigns an ID and persists the task
    Returned ID is given back to the caller (likely the UI/CLI)


Data Storage & Retrieval

    From this snippet, we can infer:
    Storage abstraction
    self.storage is likely a repository class
    It has a method add_task that returns an ID

    Pattern resembles:
    Repository Pattern
    Data Mapper

    Persistence:
    Tasks are stored outside this class

    Separation of concerns:
    This class handles business logic + validation

Storage class handles durability / IO

Design Pattern
Makes use of a factory moethod pattern where the input is validated and creates the object and implements it 


            Final Understanding of the Task Prioritization System (Exercise 2)

    1. How Priority Is Represented and Stored
    Tasks store a priority attribute, which is an instance of the TaskPriority enum.
    Priorities are defined as named constants with numeric values:

    class TaskPriority(Enum):
        LOW = 1
        MEDIUM = 2
        HIGH = 3
        URGENT = 4

    This provides structure, readability, and supports validation because only defined enum values are allowed.
    When persisted to JSON, the enum value is stored numerically.
    When tasks are loaded from disk, the numeric value is converted back into the enum:

    task.priority = TaskPriority(obj['priority'])


    So the system both serializes and deserializes priority automatically

    Priority Value Mapping and Validation

    2.Priority Value Mapping and Validation
    Priority values are mapped to integers, but users aren’t expected to provide arbitrary numbers.
    The enum ensures that invalid values cause errors instead of silently being accepted.
    There is no explicit user-facing error handling for invalid priority values, unlike date formats where there is a try/except.
    Priority validation depends on the enum type conversion to fail if invalid.

    3.Business Logic: How Priority Is Used
    Priority is used during task creation, filtering, and display.
    When listing tasks, a priority_filter can be applied:

    if priority_filter:
        priority = TaskPriority(priority_filter)
        return self.storage.get_tasks_by_priority(priority)

    Storage layer retrieves tasks using:

    def get_tasks_by_priority(self, priority):
        return [task for task in self.tasks.values() if task.priority == priority]

    This means prioritization is opt-in: filtering only happens when requested.


    4. Sorting and Combined Filters
    Tasks are not automatically sorted by priority unless the CLI or other logic explicitly sorts them.
    The system supports filtering by priority OR by overdue.
    You observed that combining filters (overdue + priority) is possible.
    Default behavior is simple filtering, not sorting.
    So prioritization functionality is available but manual, rather than being part of a larger decision engine.

    5. Data Persistence and Reconstruction
    Priority is stored in the JSON representation of a task as a numeric value.
    When reading from disk:
    JSON number ➜ Enum in memory
    When writing to disk:
    Enum ➜ JSON number
    This ensures consistency across saves and loads.

    6. Edge Cases and Limitations

There is no explicit handling for invalid priority input by users.
If a user enters something not in the Enum, a runtime error will occur.
In contrast, date inputs do have explicit validation.
So input validation is inconsistent across features.

Key Insights Gained (Exercise 2)
✔️ Enum-based representation enables:
Strong typing
Easy value mapping
Controlled valid domain

✔️ Prioritization is implemented mainly at:
Task creation
Task filtering
Task persistence

✔️ Responsibilities are well-separated:
Models: represent priorities
TaskManager: validates/filters
Storage: serializes/deserializes

✔️ The system supports flexible filtering
but does not automatically enforce global ordering.

🔍 Misconceptions Corrected
Initially, you assumed:
priorities were just numbers incremented and stored in JSON.

After reviewing the code, you discovered:
They are partgit of a TaskPriority enum
Mapped bidirectionally
Used structurally, not just raw integers
This shows a deeper design intention.


                        Exercise Part 3: Mapping Data Flow
User Input (CLI)
      │
      ▼
TaskManager (validates input, applies business rules)
      │
      ▼
Task Model (object state changes: status, priority, etc.)
      │
      ▼
Storage (serializes/deserializes task objects)
      │
      ▼
JSON File (persistent data store)

Summary
State Changes
    Task status changed to DONE
    Completion timestamp set
    Updated timestamp refreshed
    Persisted to disk

Potential Failures
    Invalid task IDs
    Invalid status values
    JSON file write failures

Persistence Workflow
    Update in-memory Task object
    Serialize to JSON
    Overwrite JSON file
    Rehydrate objects on load